---
title: Rstudio::Conf 2020
author: ''
date: '2020-02-04'
slug: rstudio-conf-2020
categories:
  - R
tags:
  - R
lastmod: '2020-02-04T14:09:30-08:00'
layout: post
type: post
highlight: no
---

## General Concepts

__Work on as small of a part of the problem as you can at a time__

In Jenny Bryan's (https://twitter.com/JennyBryan) keynote she had a realyl 
insightful point that all the great programmers she has worked with have taken 
big scary problems and broke them down to as small of a working example as 
they can. They then make sure they undetstand that part and add then begin
adding complexity or moving on to the next piece.

__Technical Debt as a social problem__ 

Gordon Shotwell (https://twitter.com/gshotwell) gave a talk about the big 
challenges in technical debt being social problems. Some of the takeaways 
from this I thought were especially interesting were:

Technical debt tends to arrise from either:
* Not considering all potential use cases 
* Not having time to implement as robust of solutions as would be ideal

Challenges to refactoring existing code even when there is bandwidth for it:
* People get attached to things they make and whoever created the code is likely still working with you
* Once people go through the pain of learning to used a flawed thing, they feel attatched to it and forget how difficult learning it was
* Learning new ways to do things can be scary 


## R packages/functions I'm excited about

__purrr::partial__

Creates partially filled in functions, so if you need to pass the same argument 
to the same function a bunch, this can clean up your code (and let you change 
what you are passing to all instances by changing one line.

__purrr::compose__

Lets you combine functions to simplify your code so of you need to pass 
the same series of piped function multiple times then you can use this instead
of repeting yourself over and over. 

*Both of these have good examples in this blog post: https://colinfay.me/purrr-code-optim/*

__memoix::memoise__

This provides some basic caching either locally or in S3. I am excited to see 
if this can save time when building reports where I keep knitting it working on
the presentation and layout parts, but it has long queries in it.

__vctrs__

Build custom vectors, these seem to be similar to classes. The interesting
example from the talk was that he works in historical records which use currencies
that are not in base 10. Using this allowed him to make custom vectors that know  
how to do all the math.

__later__

This can help with code evaluating when there are open cpu cycles instead of
locking up your main thread. I *think* it might be most usefull for lower level
things that I am currently doing but the concept is neat.

__chromatic__

Headless chrome browser controlled via R/

__sparklr__

Spark from R! I get excited about this every year then don't end up really 
pursuing it every year.

__logger__
This seems generally nice for adding logs to things it could be great it we 
start doing more with reports that auto generate at a regular cadence.

Excitingly, there is a one liner for adding logging to your shinny app!

__botor__

Similar to boto3 but for R, I have never been sure the best way to get to S3 
from R so hearing this existed blew my mind.

__future__

Parallel computing! The idea is that you should be able to write code with 
future then the user should decide what machines it is used on. A lot of this 
can be done through defults. So using things like `furrr::future_map` can 
give you big speed boosts without any real effort.

__progresser__

Get progress updates on your parralel jobs (talked about in `future` talk)

__bbplot__

BBC style plotting. Mostly interested in seeing how they implemnted it to see
if our work plotting can be made easier.

__usethis::ui\_... family__

**U**ser **I**nterface functions to give stylized feedback to users.

For instance `usethis::ui_todo('task')` will show "task" with a red dot next
to it so the user knows steps they need to take. While `usethis::ui_done('task')`
will show "task" with a green checkmark to let them know what was done. 

### Other Technologies 

__Github Actions(https://github.com/features/actions)__

These can be used to build, test, and deploy code. Triggered by actions within 
the repo. So the obvious sort of ones is someone pushing to an app or our 
airflow repository and it running checks on it. But there were also some cool
user cases like the Tidyverse has things set up where if someone makes a 
documentation change but doesn't rebuild the documentation, a maintainer can
comment `/document` and it will run a documentation build and commit it to the
branch.

This seeems to be an alternative to Circleci/Jenkins/AppVeyor build tools,
behind the scenes I think it is running Azura pipelines. 

The tests and builds can be set up to run on mac, linux (many builds), and 
windows, so this is especially helpful for testing packages that have to 
interact with filesystems.

Can be setup with: `usethis::github_actions()`.

There are built in tools for passwords and secrets.

__Parquete__

I still have a lot to learn about these but they are apparently used commonly
with spark and can save a lot of room and lookup costs over csv if youre 
storing/accessing them in S3.
